# HW3 - COSC4370
Name: Trixie Tram Nguyen, PSID: 1518295

1. Objective: Practice 3D viewing and go deeper into OpenGL by implementing the Phong shader model.
2. Environment: Run and compile on Visual Studio 2019 on Windows with GLUT, GLEW, GLFW, and GLM libraries set up. Screenshot the result of each step of the shading (such as ambient, diffuse, and specular) to get the final result phong relection then save as png file.
3. Project details: To be able to write the vertex and fragment shaders for the Phong model to shae a simple cube with the geometry already defined in main.cpp. Camera.h and Shader.h also have been provided to produce the desire images. Need to develope the phong.frag and phong.vs, along with completing code in Camera.h to return the view matrix calculated by using Eular Angles and LookAt Matrix. In additional, main.cpp also need to be complete by generate all uniform parameter such as cube color, light color and etc. so that it could be pass into shaders. MVP (model view projection) matrix also need to be complete to pass into shaders by rotating the cube using Model matrix. Be able to use function glGetUniformLocation(), and glUniform3f, glUniformMatrix4fv to pass uniform value. Four of the images that need to be produce are the image rendered by the ambient light only, image rendered by the diffuse light only, image rendered by the specular light only, and lastly the phong shading model which is the result of the other 3 previous images.
4. Explaination of completed code that need to be added: starting from main.cpp, code have been added to define several attributes of the objects such as object color, light color, light position, view position, camera matrix, view, prespective project, and model. In order to do that, first I need to use the glGetUniformLocation to get the location to pass the object color, light color, light position and view position which have been defined in phong.frag file and store in the variables objectColorLocation, lightColorLocation, lightPosLocation and viewPosLocation respectively. Next, I use the glUniform3f function to pass in the RGB values for object color with a green color value since in the PDF hw document did not specify what color we need for the cube, and for the light color is a white color values. glUniform3f function also used to pass the position of the light position using lightPos that defined in the main.cpp and the camera position get from camera header file. Next we need to get the view, perspective projection, and the model: first we set the model to 1.0, then to get the view, we use the GetViewMatrix() function form camera.h, in that function we set radius to be 10 so the camera will rotation around the object in a distance of 10, and to create the camera x, z coordinate we use the sin and cos function take in the time using the glfwGetTime() then multiply by the radius, modify the original lookAt matrix which changing the first element to camX and the third element to camZ of the first row, the other 2 rows stay the same then return the lookAt function with parameter Position, Position+Front, Up to ensure whichever way I move, the camera still keeps looking at the target direction; next for the perspective projection we passed in the angle which is 45 degree get from camera zoom, aspect ratio getting from dividing the width and height of the screen, the third and fourth which is the near and far plane which set to 1.0 and 100.0. In the phong.vs the gl_Position will be pass to shader and the FragPosition and Normal will be output to the phong.frag to be use. In the phong.frag, I implement the ambient light, diffuse light, and specular light then add all of them together, multiply with the object color to get the final result. In each step of getting the ambient light, diffuse light, and specular light I only have the code for that only light appear then run the code to get the image of each light and take the screenshot of it.
5. Result: As a result is the output of 4 images of the ambient light, diffuse light, specular light, and the phong reflection. For the first image which showed the ambient light which showing that there is dark everywhere around the object but there is still some light somewhere, therefore you can see the dark green object. For the second image, the diffuse light, showing the direction of light have impact on an object so you can see I moved the camera and screen shot which were one face is light green and one face is a very dark color which mean the light shine through it less and it shine from the right side. The third image showing the specular light which is showing the bringht spot of a light that appears on shiny object(which is the cube this time) and you can clearly see that the light is on the top right corner of the light which mean the light is shining from the topright of the object. The last image is the phong shader model which is the combination of the three lights ambient, diffuse, and specular. Notice I moved the camera so that you can see the blind spot face of the cube, the front face of the cube where the light shine to, and the shinniest spot of the sube which indicate the light source. In addition, to move around to see what I need to see, I use the 'A', 'W', 'S', 'D' to move the camera to the left cube, closer to the cube, farther from the cube, and to the right of the cube and use the move to kinda turn the cube to the point I be able to see the other faces of the cube.
6. Reference: https://learnopengl.com/Getting-started/Coordinate-Systems
https://learnopengl.com/Getting-started/Camera
https://learnopengl.com/Getting-started/Shaders
https://learnopengl.com/Lighting/Colors
https://learnopengl.com/Lighting/Basic-Lighting

